---
layout: post
title: "HTML, CSS, and CodeAcademy"
date: 2013-09-09 22:39
comments: true
categories: [blog, about, web dev, HTML, CSS, CodeAcademy]
---

OK so this one is a bit interesting. After playing around with Java, I decided I needed to have a really good grasp of the web fundamentals. So the next step would be HTML and CSS. 

I had learned a bit about HTML and CSS before, but I hadn't really dived deep into the subject. After a few Google searches and reading a few reviews I decided to get the book HTML and & CSS Design and build websites by Jon Duckett. This book was great!. Short and concise explanations paired with excellent visual design and great photographs. The book was just so pretty it was a joy to read and to hold. The book has a companion website which you can use to get the source code and images for the examples. Besides core HTML and CSS concepts, the book covers best practices, backwards and cross-browser compatibility. I recommend this book to anyone who wants to learn about HTML and CSS and get acquainted with some design concepts. 

I was about all done with the HTML part of the book when I stumbled upon CodeAcademy. An enlightened internet user mentioned it on Quora and I decided to take a look out of curiosity. What a great find! You really have to give credit to the programming community for building such amazing learning resources and making them available to the public for free. CodeAcademy offers free coding courses through their interactive online platform, which allows its users to code right on the browser and see immediate results without any previous setup. CodeSchool and Treehouse offer paid versions of this web service. At around $25 a month, access to these websites is a bargain, they offer as similar platforms for learning paired with videos and a lot more courses to choose from. CodeAcademy does not have as much content as its paid counterparts but it's free!

CodeAcademy was just what I needed. Reading the books and following along some of the work was great but I needed additional exercises. CodeAcademy helped me with this. And I was quickly done with their "Web Fundamentals" track which included HTML and CSS. Code Academy had effectively replaced my book even though it wasn't as detailed. I imagine that the great people at CodeAcademy will add more advanced courses with time.

After finishing the HTML and CSS course I felt good about what I had learned. Let's be honest, I won't be able to memorize all the tags and syntax unless I use them repeatedly. But there are plenty of resources out there I can use to check for syntax rules when the time comes. I already use HTML while editing these blog posts, but CSS will be a bit harder to use on a regular basis.

At this point I wanted to move forward so I did. I was done with HTML & CSS and CodeAcademy offered several tracks so I quickly moved onto Ruby.
